The Joe Rogan experience.
Hmm. Performer story, well.
Being, but that also speaks to like what, the kind of stuff that you do. I mean,
people like things that are crafted by artisans. Yeah.
You know what I mean.
Me too,
seeing that revival right in the last 10 years is just growing and growing and
growing and stuff.
I feel like as the world becomes more digital and people become more
disconnected with each other. There's something about like,
when I drive your Bronco, first of all, I really like you.
So I love the fact that I'm driving your truck. And then two,
I feel like it's a piece of art. Yeah. I feel like it's a functional.
Piece of art, highly functioning called.
I smile when I'm in it. It makes me feel different when I'm in my Tesla.
I'm like, this is a bad piece of invention, but you're still in your own head.
It's a piece of plastic.
It's, there's, you know, it's plastic and glass and metal and it's beautiful.
It's amazing. It's spectacular innovate, but it will never be art.
Are you in a, what? Do you have an S I have.
The, yeah, the P 100 D yeah.
Sat in the back seat. No,
don't why the noise coming out of that third point shoulder seatbelt
retractor is so unacceptable. The modern car standards,
like literally the coming up through the plastic wheel. Well,
in like a noise and a cold breeze is hitting your outboard ear. And I'm like,
okay, breathe. How did this happen?
If there's a draft that comes up through there and you're hearing road noise
through it. It's, you're.
Hearing road noise through the seatbelt, through.
The cavity, the whole row, which really the retractors pulls.
This air gets in there next time. You're too stoned to drive.
You sit in the back seat, let mom and drive and report back. You send.
Me a text. It's that annoying? Huh?
For, for guys like us, dare I go out on a limb and say us, yes.
It'll annoy the out.
Of you and interesting that car.
So you didn't have a call in number when Elan was here. I would have to.
His about that widget. That one thing you know, who the is this.
He already knows who this has all these years ago.
I developed a concept that I called the Helios.
I don't know if you ever saw that. So I love like design challenges.
I like framing things, right. So I was like, all right,
let's do a revisionist history approach to car design.
So what if electric cars had remained predominant in the
late 18 hundreds, early 19 hundreds?
What if we had taken inspiration from aircraft design a couple of decades
prior to when the industry actually did.
And then what if after he did the experimental
plane, the H two, I think it was,
what if Howard Hughes had sat in down and like,
he couldn't get that last starlet to,
to go out with him right before he lost his mind completely.
What if he Buckminster fuller and Gordon pure rig sat down and did a napkin
sketch after too many martinis? What would that car look like?
So that was my stupid pile of around which I framed my design
and I designed it to work on the, at the time and pad five platform.
And basically I received a copy of a letter that's
titled like peanut butter and chocolate that was written by Elan's core
engineering team, begging him to Lao them,
to support me, to do the built. And like since day one, like my launch was,
I don't need your money. I'll go to the dealership. I'll buy the car.
I need y'all's back in support on the software because they're super about
any repurposed or I'm sure cried Tesla's and Ilan never addressed. It was like.
That gentleman right there with the glasses, the larger bobblehead that's rich.
Yeah. I know. Rich. We just did a speaking panel together in Texas recently.
Yeah.
That's his major beef with Tesla.
He he's bought a couple of them and piece them back.
Together and block.
Them. Yeah. They block and left and right. Let them supercharge. Yep.
But it's six a about in the last two or three quarters,
there've been major gains thing, honestly,
I think due to rich and due to the community that rose up around him,
that been hacked now. So yeah. Now people can open source,
hack the can data chain and people are repurposing Tesla
components. Like I use Tesla batteries,
but I haven't been using their motors or planetary. Is there anything else?
Cause again,
what do I tell my client when the client needs an update or a part you go to the
dealer, they're like, what's your VIN and
crude you come outside. But yeah, like, um,
stealth stealthy V in fact has this new setup that they just started marketing
where you literally take that IRS apart where the electric motor is built in.
There's a little access to our, you pull out a little circuit board,
you put in another one and voila.
Is there a setup like crate engines where, you know,
or do you envision a setup where, because you know, you know that, um,
the new Hummer is now going to be an electric vehicle,
which is really interesting. Yeah.
And there's going to be a bunch of other electric vehicles that are coming out
for Volkswagen that are really cheap and a bunch of different companies are
jumping in.
Do you envision there being some sort of a crate engine option for people that
want to like.
I do. I do.
And I think there should be now proof in the pudding to this point is that
everyone's focusing on the, do it yourself market,
therefore also on the cheapest possible equation, which leaves a lot of,
in my opinion,
a lot of safety issues completely unaddressed and they can get
downright nutty.
So the other issue is they're all for ease of installation and conversion.
Everyone's thinking about doing kits that literally are a,
a Spud plate in a short shaft to go where the engine used to be put an electric
motor to a bell housing adapter to the stock transmission,
which is stupid because electric cars going through manual transmissions.
There's a lot of scavenging of energy.
It's bad enough to go through a ring and pinion doing a right angle gear,
displacement of power. You lose so much efficiency.
And the best EVs in my opinion are transmission lists are, go through planning.
Terry's said, you know, for gear reduction like that, the Merck is the,
to my knowledge, the first sort of retrofit Evie that, you know,
I being the goober that I am like, I was like, okay,
we've done a couple of UV builds, but if we're going to keep doing them, like,
I want to do them our way, like I want to, I want more safety.
I want more performance. I want more range.
I want dedicated thermal management networks for the batteries, the controllers,
the motors, and all that. And none of it existed.
How long did that build take? Oh God.
For, yeah, just a little bit over four years.
And that the scale of technology changing so quickly in the space
that as we were building it,
suppliers of key components came out with another generation that's infinitely
better than the V1 or V3 already had.
So even before we could finish that car,
we were backing up and updating and updating and updating, which really,
if you put sort of a market tier hat on,
I'm so proud of the value retention in my vehicles.
And I'm proud of our foundation of taking something that in essence,
a lot of people would think is at the end of its already usable life cycle and
upcycling it and breathing new life. So it's good to go for decades again,
but now with Evy stuff is moving so quickly. That am I,
am I like making iPhones all of a sudden.
So two years it's totally worthless because the tech is outdated.
The weird thing about tech, right,
is that the exponential growth and improvement,
it just makes them like no one wants an iPhone one right there.
Useless. So look at, you know, internal combustion engine development cycles.
What I put in today is still relevant in a decade, but with, with electric,
it's a whole new space to consider. So AEM is like well-known in,
in, in racing and aftermarket for engine management, electronics,
they just had PRI and it seem, uh,
made a fair bit of noise about coming out with a full
array of Evie retrofit conversion systems.
So these seem to be the first ones entering the field that are going to offer a
comprehensive suite of products and solutions. But then again,
being that it's part of this industry, you know,
I go grill the dudes at their trade show booth and they're like, uh, well,
it's, um, something we're, um, working on, you know,
just all these press releases and all that. I'm like sell me some, uh,
hello.
They can't sell.
To you. I think I, I trust it will come out.
But when you see Ilan coming out with, um,
like that new Roadster is going to have a 600 mile range,
that that is when things get real.
In Volkswagen claimed with that vehicle that you noted earlier,
that they were going to make the platform shareable,
and they're going to make it available to many different manufacturers,
large and small,
but I've heard stories like that over the years from you name it from Farah day
was claiming the same thing. And so much of it's. Cause now it's, it's like,
I don't want to say vaporware, but it's, it's so much of that.
Like VC money, don't worry,
we'll be profitable one day and we're worth a billion multiple of nothing today.
So buy in and then it's like so many of these Evie startups and
retrofit companies come to the scene looking for that elusive FedEx fleet
contract that everyone thinks is going to be easy to get and none of them get
it. And then they all go belly up. Yeah.
So I just think we're at that point in history where not only is the tech moving
forward so quickly and not only that,
but the likes of predominantly only due to Tesla,
it's proven the viability in the market.
Now there's purists and traditionalist and everyone's starting to poke at it and
I see exponential more interest. So I think, you know,
for the next five years or so, it's going to be a bit tumultuous,
but I definitely think it's the future of hot rodding. I, I,
I imagine within five years,
I imagine probably half of my client builds will be electric. Wow.
That's a big, that's a big statement.
Well, and I'm totally pulling it out of booty,
but that's the vibe that I get.
Have you seen, there's a 68 Porsche nine 11.
That has a Tesla engine in it.
Yeah. Is that the one Evie west?
I don't know who built it scamming through a scanning through Instagram the
other day. And I saw it a green 68. Yeah. Uh, that's,
that's very interesting when they do stuff like that to old car.
And there's so many guys springing up out of the woodwork,
like nationwide to various levels of price, expectation, range, expectation,
et cetera. But I think that's a really, it's a lovely community too.
I've noticed it's much more open than the conventional automotive
community is about sharing information and suppliers and knowledge and helping
one another. And it's, there's a really nice comradery within that community.
There's like movement motors and Austin's doing really nice retrofits and oh
yeah. Evie west has been around forever.
They were really the granddaddies on the scene and.
And Austin did they, they're the ones that did that Mustang. Okay.
Um, I think they've done a staying, they just finished doing a 2002 BMW.
They did an early GTV alpha. They've done all sorts of different,
like pretty cool diverse range of platforms. And then of course, um,
um, uh,
XE electric down in orange county that started out doing just the bugs now,
the bugs and the buses and now nine 11. And it's like,
there's such a large and welcoming kind of cool community of people in that
space. Now, when you.
Charge a Tesla, it's easy. You know, you look for the Tesla superchargers,
they're all over the place.
You press a button on your screen and it shows you where they are.
It'll navigate you to them. When you try to get one of those,
you can't charge a regular car to Tesla, super station.
Can, you know, and there's different. So there's this standard.
I forget the INAC room. We could call rich, uh, the J blah, blah,
blah connector, but there's a standard municipal connector.
And then there's also the new fast charge network,
but it depends on where you live. But for example, around here, it's a joke.
They're everywhere. So like I have an app when I'm driving that 49 merch.
And you know, I was, uh,
speaking at bear Jackson and had it there in town for while I was visiting.
And they're your network, the apps, and you find it.
But when we made that one supercharger compatible,
because the client's going to install one in his house and punk the system,
otherwise you try and go to a public Tesla charger. It has to do a handshake.
And it says, no, you may not charge here.
So you can have it supercharger compatible for like,
I have one in the wall back there for my car. So it would work. Yeah.
Yes. That's my understanding, but not a public installation.
Those have to go through a whole handshake protocol set back and forth.
Yeah. It's interesting that you decided to do it that way.
Yeah. Well, it was fun. We put one, um, behind the front license plate.
So we did one of those old school articulating plates. Like,
remember when the gas phones run the play.
So that has the one interface connector. And then the other one,
I machine this unnecessarily groovy sort of gas cap under the original
fuel door on the merch. And then that's for the other style charger.
Do you, oh, so you could charge it with different ones with the supercharger.
Depending on do to increase the versatility of it.
You had a supercharger fast charge compatibility,
and then you had the more widely distributed municipal format charger.
And then there's just two different pigtail adapters. So you can go either way.
Do you anticipate upping the range on that thing?
Do you think that someday you'll swap the batteries?
Definitely. I think the reality is any Evie project I built. I have to,
not only do I anticipate, but like I've lost many clients because I'll be super
blunt about making, managing their expectations. That look,
you're going to spend a lot of money to have me do this and trust.
I will geek out and do the best of the state of the art that is available to us.
But in a year that might all be garbage.
So you have to understand either you're cool with this moment in time and the
range and the performance, and it is what it is. Or you're a tech geek,
like most guys that are engaging in that,
and you're going to be hemorrhaging money then coming back every couple of years
for us to upgrade and evolve as the sciences evolve. Oh, you know,
we build on the sub modular, even like your Broncos sub-modules built.
So your power train,
the electrical network for your power train goes to a two single Deutsche tech
26 pin connectors, aerospace connectors.
So one day when that powertrain is no longer relevant,
but your truck still has good platform value, unplugged that,
yank it out and put in the hydrogen or the micro capacitor or whatever the hell
is working at the time.